'This next example is another extremely popular commodity for traders, gold, and the ETF is the GLD fund. Once again I've taken a faster time
frame here to use as an example, and in this case my commentary is on a candle by candle basis with no annotation. The reason is that the chart
would simply be too cluttered!/n
Before starting, let me put the gold market into context for you. At the time of this ctim
The market opens gapped down on extremely high volume, a clear signal of weakness. We are starting with weakness which has been validated
by volume. The next candle forms, a small hammer, again with ultra high volume. Is this stopping volume – perhaps, and we wait for the next candle
to form, a small candle with an upper wick, suggestive of further weakness, and coupled with high volume.
Clearly not a positive response to the 'stopping' volume. The next two down candles suggest a modicum of buying on each, with the lower wicks
showing some support, but the market continues lower on rising volume with the penultimate candle suggesting stopping volume once again.
Finally the last down candle in this price waterfall closes on average volume, followed by the first up candle of the session. A weak response if ever
there was one, with a deep upper wick and narrow spread with above average volume. This is hardly a market that is preparing to reverse at this
point. The next candle is perfectly valid, a narrow spread up candle with average volume – this looks fine.
Then we see a repeat of the first candle in this sequence of up candles, but this time, look at the volume – it is extremely high. This is sending a
LOUD signal that the market is VERY WEAK. If this were buying volume then the market would be rising fast – it isn't, so it must be selling volume.
Everyone is selling and trying to get out of the market before it collapses, with every attempt to rise knocked back by the pressure of selling. The
next candle is even worse, sending an even stronger signal, if any were needed, that everyone is selling and the market is now incredibly weak.
Here we have ultra high volume and a market that is going nowhere. The price spread is narrow, and if the volume were buying, then the market
would have risen. The insiders are propping the market up, selling stock accumulated in the price waterfall, before taking it lower.
The next two candles give no clues, narrow spreads with low volume, then the market sells off sharply, as expected, and validated with ultra high
volume, as it lurches lower once again. The next candle hints at stopping volume once again with a narrow spread and deep wick on very high
volume. The buyers are moving in at this level, and this is repeated on the next candle with high volume again on a narrow spread. Now we should
see the market recover, but look at the next candle. The market attempts to rise, but falls back to close near the open on above average volume.
Not a strong signal. A small hammer follows, on ultra high volume so perhaps there are more buyers in the market, and based on the volume of the
last few bars, perhaps a reversal is now in prospect?/n
Three bullish candles then follow, each with a narrow spread, but the volume is flat, so we have a market rising on flat volume, and therefore unlikely
to go very far. The market reverses from this level, and as it falls volumes are increasing signalling selling pressure once again. The final candle in
this sequence is a very narrow spread doji candle, with high volume, and again we can assume that this is stopping volume with buyers coming in
once more./n
This is confirmed with the next candle which is a wide spread up candle with above average volume, but as the market rises on the next two
candles, volume is falling away. The insiders are not taking this market far. The market then drifts si chenumes ardeways for an extended period in
the session with several attempts to rally all failing, and with volumes generally falling to low levels throughout this phase the market duly closes,
looking very weak.'
